good morning
so yesterday Apple announced their new
Mac Pro and the setup that they've
showcased like the example workstation
that they've built and put on their
website and shown on media pictures is a
$12,000 set up at the base price like
the starting price to get everything
that you see in that photo the screen
the stand and a base model Mac Pro is
twelve thousand US dollars it is super
expensive and when you compare that to
like the last Mac Pro they offered when
they had the trashcan and whatever
monitor they had available back then the
cinema display that was like a five
thousand dollar setup so this is a lot
more expensive than it used to be but
the moment I heard that price tag like
six thousand dollars for an eight-core
desktop and then another six thousand
dollars for a display it just did not
sit right with me but over the past 24
hours I've come to the realization that
that system is not for me I want it to
be I really wish Apple was making a
quote-unquote professional system for
people to make YouTube videos but the
reality is it's built for a completely
different class of user it's built for
people that are comfortable dropping
like twenty or thirty thousand dollars
on these workstations and that's who
these products are for so I think one of
the biggest reasons why myself and a lot
of other content creators or even
publications are a little bit confused
at this price tag is because the
hardware has changed a lot over the past
four or five years like five years ago
hardware was separated into kind of two
main categories consumer stuff and then
professional stuff and the consumer
stuff was like two maybe four core CPUs
and whatever goes with that and then the
professional-grade stuff was like four
to 1618 sometimes even twenty core CPUs
they were very expensive but that's what
separated the two kind of classes of
hardware but regular consumers back then
would sometimes buy professional grade
stuff for better performance because you
couldn't get more than four cores with
the consumer grade stuff so over the
past couple of years we've seen a huge
improvement in Hardware from companies
like Intel and NVIDIA to the point where
you can get equal and sometimes even
better performance with the consumer
grade stuff now
then you can with the professional like
Zeon great stuff so when you look at
that price tag it is weird that a
company is selling an eight-core desktop
system for $6,000 we can buy like a 16
core thread Ripper system for half the
price
or less and the fact that has an Apple
logo on it just paints a target on its
back it's easy to make fun of an Apple
has a track record for having some
pretty overpriced products but the
reality is with this system these are
just very expensive to produce and
they're not meant for people like you
and I they're meant for people that can
actually make use of the type of
hardware that's in it now speaking of
that hardware it is running some very
powerful stuff the CPU in the base model
is already a $3,000 CPU from Intel it's
not something that I would ever make use
of but for the right user that it's what
it's there for you can bump it up to a
28 core CPU which is bonkers but the
hardware in here is very configurable
and very powerful and it's something
that's quite different from anything
that Apple's offered in a really long
time it's pretty configurable you're not
going to get as many options as like a
windows-based workstation but the whole
product feels like they did a good job
with what professionals want Apple to do
it's an expensive system but it's an
apple system so they've made a pretty
different focus with this product than
their regular consumer lineup right it's
clearly geared towards some very heavy
workflows but it's also quite different
in aesthetics it's perforated all over
it doesn't look particularly sleek it
has a very industrial look and the truth
is if that product did not have an Apple
logo on it like let's say I don't know
let's say Xiaomi made this case and put
it out on the market people would
probably call that thing ugly the whole
cheesegrater front is something that
just doesn't look very Apple for 2019
now with that heavily perforated front
you get something that no other system
has in the Apple ecosystem that case
allows a huge amount of air to flow
through the system which something like
a sleek regular Mac looking product
wouldn't be able to do so I'm glad they
went with that perforated design it's
not the most visually appealing but it
was the right choice and I also want to
talk about the screen real quick during
the presentation when they're just
showcasing the product and talking about
its features I was trying to guess what
that thing would cost and I thought it'd
be like $2,000 maybe 2500 bucks at most
it ended up being five thousand dollars
plus another thousand for the stand and
remember thinking like that's that's
insane like who's gonna buy that and
then they compared it to these reference
monitor these like thirty or forty
thousand dollar pieces of equipment and
I'm not gonna pretend like I know
anything about them I've never seen a
studio monitor in my life but looking at
the specs there's some crazy stuff going
on they have a contrast ratio of a
million to one which is something we
never see outside of OLED panels they've
built this thing with a regular LCD well
not a regular LCD but with an LCD that
they've tweaked and modified to produce
a crazy high quality image at what seems
like a fraction of the price of its
competitors and again it's for a market
that's not me right it's for
professionals that need consistency
between the screens and that's what
these products are for that's who these
products are gonna be sold to but I
really wish I could be someone that
could make use of it just for the
interest of that technology because I'm
someone who shoots in 5k I don't use
ProRes like that whole product lineup is
not built for me I'm not someone who
would ever use ECC memory so for the
people that are interested in this stuff
you now have what seems like a really
good option for the professional
workstation okay hope you guys enjoyed
this video thumbs if you liked it subs
we'd love to see you guys next time
[Music]